handbook eng: testing gitlab native integration locally (#567)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/engineering/distribution/gitlab_native_local.md

> # How to test the Gitlab native integration on a local dev machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to test the GitLab native integration on a local dev machine
```

All other instances of `Gitlab` should be updated too.

This specializes and augments the official admin docs for the integration with gotchas when running on localhost.
It assumes you want to develop/debug the Sourcegraph side of this relationship so therefore will run the `dev/start.sh`

> Sourcegraph and will run a Gitlab CE instance in a docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
command for Sourcegraph and Gitlab CE in a Docker container.
```

## Sourcegraph instance

> Launch a Sourcegraph instance as usual with `dev/start.sh` or `enterprise/dev/start.sh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launch a Sourcegraph instance with `dev/start.sh` or `enterprise/dev/start.sh`.
```

> If you need a TLS endpoint for the Sourcegraph instance (for example to debug secure-only cookies) you can use [Caddy](https://caddyserver.com/),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need a TLS endpoint or reverse-proxy for your Sourcegraph instance (e.g. to example to debug secure-only cookies) you can use [Caddy](https://caddyserver.com/),
```

>  [ngrok](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started) or similar to create the TLS endpoint and reverse-proxy the Sourcegraph instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 [ngrok](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started) are recommended.
```

>  Please don't forget to update the external URL of the Sourcegraph instance in the site config to the appropriate TLS endpoint value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> NOTE: If using a TLS endpoint, remember to update the external URL of the Sourcegraph instance in the site config.
```

 
## Gitlab instance

> It is assumed here that you have a functioning Docker runtime on your local dev machine. We will run Gitlab like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Docker to run a local GitLab CE instance:
```

```shell script
docker run --hostname localhost -p 4080:4080  \
        --name gitlab \

>         --volume /Users/exampledev/sourcegraph-docker/gitlab-disk/config:/etc/gitlab \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        --volume ~/.sourcegraph-gitlab/gitlab-disk/config:/etc/gitlab \
```
And for the other lines if you like this change.

        --volume /Users/exampledev/sourcegraph-docker/gitlab-disk/logs:/var/log/gitlab \
        --volume /Users/exampledev/sourcegraph-docker/gitlab-disk/data:/var/opt/gitlab \
        gitlab/gitlab-ce:latest
```

> > Important: Make sure if you run Gitlab on a port different from port 80 then the container port has to match the host port

Reviewer: If we're presuming someone is following your guide, then I don't think this is required.

Author: I just wanted to call this out in case they change ports. This bit me and took me awhile to figure out. If their host port in my command is already taken they should change both.

> so in this case 4080:4080.

> Once Gitlab is running it will set up configs in `/Users/exampledev/sourcegraph-docker/gitlab-disk/config`. We need to tell it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once Gitlab is running it will set up configs in `~/sourcegraph-gitlab/gitlab-disk/config`. We need to tell it
```

its external URL, so go into that directory and open `gitlab.rb` in an editor. Uncomment and change the `external_url` value to `http://localhost:4080`.

> You have to restart Gitlab: `docker restart gitlab`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have to restart GitLab by running the command: `docker restart gitlab`.
```

> At this point you can add content to Gitlab to make it available for testing. Create a new project and clone the repo

Reviewer: To make it easier to create new (and real) repositories (this is what I do for testing code intel on gitlab.k8ds.dev), I would suggest changing the steps to the below:

- Create the project in your GitLab instance, then copy the git `https` URL.
- Clone a repository from GitHub
- Change the `origin` remote URL of the cloned repository from GitHub to your local GItLab instance project using `git remote set-url origin <repo URL>`.
- Run `git push` to push the commits, tags, and branches to your GitLab project.

Author: @ryan-blunden That sounds great. Could you please make this change ? I haven't imported into gitlab before. Thank you :-)

locally to add some Go files to it (we want to test code navigation for example).

On the Sourcegraph side add the Gitlab instance as an external service and check that the repo cloned.

> ## Turn on native integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable the Sourcegraph native integration
```

The two relevant docs are:

* https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/external_service/gitlab#native-integration
* https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/sourcegraph.html

You have to enable Sourcegraph integration in the rails console. Open a shell in the Gitlab container and execute `gitlab-rails console`.
At the prompt enter `Feature.enable(:sourcegraph)`.

Follow the remaining steps from both docs.

## Testing

> If everything worked you should see the Sourcegraph code intel hover when you're in a File view of a Go file in the repo you set up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test code intelligence is working by viewing a file in GitLab and hovering over a token. If it doesn't appear to be working,  open the browser developer tools console and wait for a "code view added" log message. If this does not appear after 10 or so seconds, code intelligence has not been added to any code view(s).

Be sure to test code intelligence works in merge requests too. To create a merge request (as these will not be migrated from another code host), view a branch, then create a merge request.

Also test that code intelligence works on PRs, as well as viewing code files.
```
